Case 2 – Professor Green writeup completed

In this project, Professor Green and his team, two Masters students, will be collecting research data regarding teamwork in hospital environments. They have two primary means of data collection. The first will consist of 383 documents for a textual/content analysis; these files are currently in various formats and stored on Zotero. Quantitative data regarding the textual analysis is stored in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet The second type of data will be audio recordings and transcriptions from interviews with informants; audio recordings will be encoded in MP3 format at 128kbps. Professor Green will also utilize open source datasets regarding healthcare in his research. Currently, Professor Green stores his data in three locations: Zotero, Dropbox, and Google Docs. Our data management team suggests using part of the budget to purchase a secure database for storage. The first option we suggest is that Professor Green utilizes Dalhousie's' institutional repository which provides a stable URL, access control, and is easy to use. It can handle the different file formats Professor Green uses and he will be able to directly analyze his data. The second and third option are two cloud based repositories that Professor Green are familiar with and know how to use. The second option is purchasing a DropBox Business account for teams. The standard account costs $17.50 a month and provides 2 TB of storage; this will provide enough storage as Professor Green's research project grows. A DropBox Business account will provide storage, security, access from different locations, version history and file recovery, and advance sharing permissions that Professor Green can control. The third option is purchasing a G Suite Business account which gives more features to Google Docs. With this type of account, Professor Green has 1TB of cloud storage, administration controls, archive, and has a low price of $10 USD a month. Our suggestion is DropBox as Professor Green is familiar with it and can control the access to data. The data created by Professor Green's research is highly sensitive and he does not want this data shared with anyone. Any data created by his research will be encrypted before being deposited into DropBox and will have any identifying information anonymized. Original data will not be shared, but notes recorded by Green himself will be made accessible to his Masters students. 

To improve the use of Green's data, we will implement a metadata standard. Data created by his project will be tagged in XML using the Data Documentation Initiative format. This is a widely used international standard for describing data from both social and science fields. Metadata will provide context about data for his team since they will not be allowed to access data without Green's approval. Green will hold intellectual property rights for all his research data and information that is directly created by the project. Green is adamant that the data for this experiment is held closely, however if he were to publish this a copyright license will ensure that his data is not used by anyone.  

To protect the privacy of the informants, Professor Green will use an informed consent form. The form states that the researchers will not identify the participant by name in an information resulting from the interview and that confidentiality will be kept at all times. Data is subject to the standard practice of anonymizing data to ensure this privacy; any identifying information will be limited to Professor Green and will only be kept on the master copy on his USB key. During analysis and storage, only Green and approved members of his research team will be allowed to access sensitive data. After being uploaded to DropBox, any direct identifies will be removed.  

Data obtained from healthcare organizations are currently stored in a Zotero database in various formats. To ensure preservation of data, it is suggested that the document files and transcripts of interviews be converted into a single file format of PDF. This will not alter the content of data in any form, but will ensure that the documents can be accessed in the future and that the data cannot be altered. PDF provides a high level data encryption and offers a secure way to transfer data over the internet. Green can customize the user access level, setting it so he is the only one who can access the files and add a digital signature to further protect his work. Once the various formats are changed to PDF there will be less variation on file formats. Excel spreadsheets are used to keep track of quantitative data. Phone interviews will be recorded as MP3 files. Each audio file is estimated to be 57.6 MB and will require 864 MB of storage in total.  

Preservation and archiving Green's data will occur through DropBox and a master copy of all files will be backed up on both an external USB key and a hard-drive. Green's assigned data manager will be tasked with migrating research data to new formats, platforms, and storage as required for the continuation of his research. A master copy of each file will be contained in the USB key and backed up on the repository in a secure zipped folder. The data files from Green's project will be managed, processed, and stored in a secure environment by the researcher himself. As the data managers for this project, we will instruct Green on how to secure his laptop and install a strong firewall system to further protect his data. The folder containing files for his project will be both encrypted and password protected. Professor Green has assigned us to be the data managers of this project, meaning we will act as stewards for the data throughout the data life cycle. At the conclusion of the current grant, we will give all data management plan documents to the new assigned data manager.  

Green's project makes use of 383 documents from healthcare organizations for his textual analysis. We recommend that once it is completed, the files will be archived and retained for 1 year after this part of the project is completed. Data generated from phone interviews will be both recorded and transcribed. Transcriptions will be retained by the repository as part of the permanent research data and the MP3 files can be archived after they are transcribed. Green has noted that there is currently a binder of printed Excel spreadsheets from a previous study. It is our recommendation that Green's trained Masters students go through to find any relevant data to the current research; we are only data managers and are not familiar with the healthcare field. We will digitize any relevant data to the repository.  

A private GitHub account will be used in tangent of DropBox to manage version control during the course of Green's research; it will also act as a backup of any data. A standardized naming convention will be employed for different versions of Green's data. They will consist of a determined prefix, root and suffix system. This will ensure that Green and his team know which is the most recent version of their data analysis and allow the team to access previous versions at any time. Separate fills will be managed for the different types of data produced; I.e. there will be one folder for documents, interviews, and notes. Costs for creating, maintaining, and storing data will be covered by a grant Professor Green has received from CIHR. Budget resources will go towards paying for a digital repository, DropBox, and ensuring version control for the long term plan of the research project. 

 

Sections I didn't cover: Legal requirements, quality assurance, audience 

I think it needs work with more technical info, but I'm not good at that:( 